 Title of Your Final Year Design Project By Student-1 Name Student-1 ID Student-2 Name Student-2 ID FINAL YEAR DESIGN PROJECT REPORT This Report Presented in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering Supervised by Supervisor Name Designation Department of Computer Science and Engineering Daffodil International University Co-Supervised by Co-Supervisor Name Designation Department of Computer Science and Engineering Daffodil International University 3111500 312039 DAFFODIL INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY Dhaka, Bangladesh September 17, 2025 APPROVAL 1082675 113356 This Project titled “ Write Your Title Here ,” submitted by [ write your name ] and [ write your group member’s name (if any) ] to the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Daffodil International University, has been accepted as satisfactory for the partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of B.Sc. in Computer Science and Engineering and approved as to its style and contents. The presentation has been held on 26-01-2024 . BOARD OF EXAMINERS 1082675 289736 Name Board Chairman Designation, Department of CSE, FSIT Daffodil International University 1082675 316342 Name Internal Examiner 1 Designation, Department of CSE, FSIT Daffodil International University 1082675 316342 Name Internal Examiner 2 Designation, Department of CSE, FSIT Daffodil International University 1082675 316340 Name External Examiner Designation, Department of CSE, FSIT Daffodil International University DECLARATION 1082675 151458 We hereby declare that this project has been done by us under the supervision of Name of the Supervisor , Supervisor’s Designation , Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Daffodil International University. We also declare that neither this project nor any part of this project has been submitted elsewhere for the award of any degree or diploma. Supervised by: 1082675 196687 Supervisor Name Designation Department of Computer Science and Engineering Daffodil International University Co-Supervised by: 1082675 196587 Co-Supervisor Name Designation Department of Computer Science and Engineering Daffodil International University Submitted by: 1082675 196302 Team Member 1 Name Student ID: Department of Computer Science and Engineering Daffodil International University 1082675 207013 Team Member 2 Name (if any) Student ID: Department of Computer Science and Engineering Daffodil University ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 1082675 151458 This work would not have been possible without the support and contributions of many individuals over the past two semesters. We are deeply grateful to everyone who has as- sisted us in one way or another. First, we express our heartfelt thanks and gratefulness to the almighty for His divine blessing making it possible for us to complete the Final Year Design Project( FYDP) successfully. We are grateful and wish our profound indebtedness to Supervisor Name , Supervisor’s Designation , Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Daffodil International University, Dhaka, Bangladesh. Deep knowledge and keen interest of our supervisor in the field of Write the ﬁeld name here to carry out this project. His endless pa- tience , scholarly guidance, continual encouragement, constant and energetic supervision, constructive criticism, valuable advice, reading many inferior drafts, and correcting them at all stages have made it possible to complete this project. We would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to the Head of the Department of Com- puter Science and Engineering, for his kind help in finishing our project and also to other faculty members and the staff of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Daffodil International University. We would like to thank our entire course-mates at Daffodil International University, who took part in this discussion while completing the coursework. Finally, we must acknowledge with due respect the constant support and patience of our parents. ABSTRACT 1073150 120976 The abstract should contain a summary of the work presented in this report in a single paragraph. An abstract is a concise, well-developed paragraph typically between 100 and 300 words , often adhering to a strict word limit. Its purpose is to provide a brief overview of all key aspects of the paper, giving readers a snapshot of the content. A strong abstract is succinct yet impactful, offering enough detail to convey the main points without unnecessary elaboration. To craft an effective abstract, it is essential to ensure that every word serves a purpose, efficiently summarizing the research while highlighting its relevance, methodology, findings, and conclusions. The goal is to give readers a clear understanding of the paper’s value in a minimal amount of space. The paragraph should provide a general background of the problem, methodology, results, and implication. Table of Contents Approval i Declaration ii Acknowledgements iii Abstract iv List of Figures vii List of Tables viii Introduction 1 Introduction 1 Motivation 1 Objectives 1 Methodology 1 Project Outcome 1 Organization of the Report 1 Background 2 Introduction 2 Literature Review 2 Similar Applications 3 Gap Analysis 3 Summary 3 Research Methodology 4 Methodology/Requirement Analysis &amp; Design Specification 4 Overview 4 Proposed Methodology/ System Design 4 Functional and Nonfunctional Requirements 5 Data Flow Diagram 5 UI Design 5 Detailed Methodology and Design 5 Project Plan 5 Task Allocation 5 Summary 5 Implementation and Results 6 Environment Setup 6 Testing and Evaluation/Performance/ Comparative Analysis 6 Results and Discussion 6 Summary 6 Engineering Standards and Design Challenges 7 Compliance with the Standards 7 Software Standards 7 Hardware Standards 7 Communication Standards 7 Impact on Society, Environment and Sustainability 7 Impact on Life 7 Impact on Society &amp; Environment 7 Ethical Aspects 7 Sustainability Plan 7 Project Management and Financial Analysis 7 Complex Engineering Problem 8 Complex Problem Solving 8 Engineering Activities 8 Summary 8 Conclusion 10 Summary 10 Limitation 10 Future Work 10 References 11 List of Figures 3.1 This is a sample diagram 4 List of Tables Summary of Literature Reviewed. 2 Mapping with complex problem solving. 8 Mapping with knowledge Profile. 8 Mapping with complex engineering activities. 9 Chapter 1 Introduction [Must be present in Phase-1 Progress Report and also in the Final Report ] Every chapter should start with 1-2 sentences on the outline ofthe chapter. Introduction This section should present the background and a problem statement that your project aims to solve. Motivation The computational motivation that encourages you to solve the problem should be stated here clearly. In addition, you can mention why solving this problem will benefit you. Objectives Enumerate the objectives in clear and specific terms. Methodology Here you put a summary of the methodology. Project Outcome What are or could be the possible outcomes of your work? Organization ofthe Report Here put a chapter-wise structure of the report in narrative form. Chapter 2 Background [Must be present in Phase-1 progress Report and also in the Final Report] Every chapter should start with 1-2 sentences on the outline ofthe chapter. Introduction In this section, you have to provide the necessary background knowledge to understand the rest of the report [1]. Literature Review This section will contain your literature review. [2] You can use the following table as well as paragraph to represent your background study ( at least 10 ). Table 2.1: Summary of Literature Reviewed. Author (s) Year Title Methodology Key Findings Doe et al. 2020 A Comprehensive Study on Data Science Qualitative Anal- ysis Found significant trends in data science applications. Smith 2018 Machine Learning in Healthcare Survey- based Highlighted the ma- jor algorithms used in healthcare for predic - tion . Johnson et al. 2019 AI for Financial Forecasting Quantitative Analysis Demonstrated the effectiveness of AI in improving financial decision- making. Williams [3] 2021 Blockchain in Supply Chain Management Case Study Showcased the poten - tial of blockchain to enhance supply chain transparency. Similar Applications (Mandatory for project, optional for research) Put a summary of similar case study, methodological contribution of other web applications, and mobile apps similar to your work ( at least 5 ). Gap Analysis Here put summaries the gaps you have found/observed from the related work study, where you intend to contribute. Sample Table Features TechLandbd Ryans Computer Village StarTech Paragon- Co mputer bd Proposed system Like or dislike to products No No No No No Yes Filtering liked and disliked products No No No No No Yes Add to favorite or wishlist Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Search option of products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Detailed descriptions of products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Offers collection Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Customer reviews and ratings Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Multiple payment options Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes FAQs option No Yes Yes Yes No Yes Chatting option Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Recommendations or filtering latest products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Product add to cart Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes PC Builder Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Quick view Yes Yes No No Yes Yes Summary Provide a brief summary of this section here. Chapter 3 Research Methodology [Must be present in Phase-1 Progress Report and also in The Final Report] Every chapter should start with 1-2 sentences on the outline ofthe chapter. Methodology/Requirement Analysis &amp; Design Speciﬁ cation Note: Keep Methodology for research and Keep Requirement Analysis &amp; Design Speciﬁcation for project Overview Proposed Methodology/ System Design Note: Keep Proposed Methodology for research and Keep System Design for project 2466975 282608 Figure 3.1: This is a sample diagram Functional and Nonfunctional Requirements Note: Functional requirements describe what the system should do — the core features and behaviors ofthe system under speciﬁc conditions. Non-functional requirements deﬁne how the system performs — they are quality attributes that affect user experience and system design, not speciﬁc behaviors. Data Flow Diagram UI Design Detailed Methodology and Design You have to mention alternate solutions that you have considered. Why you have selected the specific solution, etc. Project Plan Task Allocation This table depicts the timeline of the principal activities in each period of the project, from week 12 to week 48. Sample Table Tasks Weeks 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 46 48 Data collection phase Preprocess all the data Model training Create a demo application. Summary Provide a brief summary of this section here. Chapter 4 Implementation and Results [Must be present in the Final Report. Incomplete version might be included in Phase-1 Progress Report, however it is optional.] Every chapter should start with 1-2 sentences on the outline ofthe chapter. Environment Setup Testing and Evaluation/Performance/ Comparative Anal ysis Results and Discussion Summary Provide a brief summary of this section here. Chapter 5 Engineering Standards and Design Challenges [Must be present in Phase-1 Progress Report and also in Final Report] Every chapter should start with 1-2 sentences on the outline ofthe chapter. Compliance with the Standards Only mention the standards that are related to your project. This list is not complete. For each of the standards discuss the alternates with pros and cons and rationale of selection. Software Standards Hardware Standards Communication Standards Impact on Society, Environment and Sustainability Impact on Life Impact on Society &amp; Environment Ethical Aspects Sustainability Plan Project Management and Financial Analysis Provide a cost analysis in terms of budget required and revenue model. In case of budget, you must show an alternate budget and rationales. Complex Engineering Problem Complex Problem Solving In this section, provide a mapping with problem solving categories. For each mapping add subsections to put rationale (Use Table 5.1). For P1, you need to put another mapping with Knowledge profile and rational thereof. Table 5.1: Mapping with Complex Engineering Problem. EP1 Dept of Knowledg e EP2 Range Of Conflicting Requirement s EP3 Depth of Analysi s EP4 Familiarit y of Issues EP5 Extent of Applicabl e Codes EP6 Extent Of Stake-holder Involveme nt EP7 Interdependen ce Mapping with Knowledge Proﬁle This section is designed to map the overall problem and EP1 (multiple betwe en K3, K4, K5, K6, K8for attaining EP 1) to the Knowledge Profile. Table 5.2: Mapping with knowledge Profile. K1 K2 K3 K4 K5 K6 K7 K8 Natur al Scien ce Mathema tics Engineerin g Fundamen tals Speciali st Knowle dge Engineer ing Design Engineer ing Practice Comprehe nsion Resear ch Literatu re Engineering Activities In this section, provide a mapping with engineering activities. For each mapping add subsections to put rationale (Use Table 5.3). Mapping with Complex Engineering Activities This section is designed to map the overall problem and EA’s (multiple). Table 5.3: Mapping with Complex Engineering Activities. EA1 Range of re- sources EA2 Level of Interaction EA3 Innovation EA4 Consequences for society and environment EA5 Familiarity Summary Chapter 6 Conclusion [Must be present in Phase-1 Progress Report and also in the Final Report. Might be incomplete in FYDP-1 Report.] Every chapter should start with 1-2 sentences on the outline ofthe chapter. Summary Limitation Future Work References [References should be in IEEE format] Jon Kleinberg and Eva Tardos. Algorithm design . Pearson Education India, 2006. First Author and Second. Article title. Journal Name , Volume Number( Issue Num- ber ):Start Page–End Page, Year of Publication. John Smith and Jane Doe. The impact of climate change on coastal ecosystems. Nature Climate Change , 13(2):123–145, 2023. 
