FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 1 
   
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 2 
   
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 3 
  Others (please specify) : 
Software packages, 
tools, and 
programming 
languages  Programming Languages : 
- TypeScript 5.x,  
- JavaScript (ES6+),  
- HTML5,  
- CSS3  
Frontend:  
- Next.js 15.5.9,  
- React 19.0.0,  
- Tailwind CSS 4.1.7,  
- Redux Toolkit 2.8.2,  
- React Hook Form 7.62.0,  
Backend:  
- Node.js,  
- Express.js 5.1.0,  
- MongoDB,  
- Mongoose 8.18.1,  
- Passport.js 0.7.0, JWT,  
- Multer 2.0.2,  
- Cloudinary 2.7.0,  
- SSLCommerz LTS 1.2.0,  
 
Development Tools:  
- npm,  
- Git,  
- Visual Studio Code,  
- Nodemon 3.1.10,  
- ts-node 10.9.2  
 
Third -Party Services:  
- Cloudinary (Image Storage),  
- SSLCommerz (Payment Gateway),  
- Google OAuth (Authentication),  
- Gmail SMTP (Email Service)  
 
Testing & Documentation:  
- Postman / Insomnia,  
- Markdown  
 
 
 
 FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 4 
 CO Description for FYDP -Phase -I 
CO CO Descriptions  PO 
CO4  Perform economic evaluation, cost estimation, and apply suitable project 
management procedures throughout the FYDP lifecycle in the context of 
developing the multi -vendor Book -Shop website . PO11  
CO6  Select and apply appropriate methodologies, resources, and contemporary 
engineering/IT tools for prediction, modeling, and solving complex 
engineering processes for the Book -Shop (multi -vendor)  project.  PO5  
CO7  Assess societal, health, safety, legal, and cultural issues and responsibilities in 
professional engineering practice related to the FYDP problem.  PO6  
CO10  Operate effectively as an individual and as a member/leader in 
multidisciplinary teams during FYDP.  PO9  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 5 
 1. Project Overview  
1.1 Introduction  
Bangladesh created a full -stack website called Book Shop to make buying and selling books faster. 
The platform's easy -to-use design makes it easy for students, book readers, and sellers to trade 
both new and used books.  The system of this book -shop will allow  user to see the  book -list for 
sale, browse the inventory, manage wishlists and shopping carts, process safe payments, and 
manage orders.  
1.2 Background  Study  
The inspiration come from the observation of DIU fair which is held every Monday in a week at 
the AB 4building, There are many kinds stall but a few were standing in front of book stall .  It is 
that moment I have to create a website which is depend on one and only pure book -sop, no other 
things will be mixed, The academic thing s will also be seen in webs ite, but for now only books 
will be added. Making it possible, there are  several critical challenges and opportunities were 
identified:  
Challenges Observed:  
- Accessibility  issue : Many students were unable to participate in a book fair because of time 
and location  or any other ob stacles . 
- Inventor y Issues:  Sellers could not found the available books,  because of there is no listing 
or any organized system.  manage inventory  and that result is late responds.  
- Price barga ining issue : Those  discussions are held in -person, took a lot of time and lost the 
chances for both buyers and sellers.  
- Payment  limited issue : Payment choices were restricted and security issues were raised by 
cash-only transactions.  
- Less comm unication issue : There is no way, that any  other  students  who miss the chance  to 
buy or sell books after the fair finished.  
- Information  issue : All b uyers had difficulty finding specific books, while sellers couldn't 
effectively reach their target audience . 
Opportunities Identified : 
- Demand ing: The st udent  has a strong will to get a book to read  and after finishing it , they sell 
that book either if that is  academic and any regional books.  
- Active Community:  DIU has a f abulous  admitted student campaign that could  represents a 
significant potential user base.  
- Digital Read book : Though every students who is well known by this modern life, specially 
the Gen -Z, they are addicted to mobile phones and online things . It is high possibility to make 
many customer in virtual.  
- Cost -Effective  Solution:  A sustainable market for a book exchange was shown by students' 
preference for reasonably priced used books.  
According to the growth of e -commerce in Bangladesh, the digital market ing has expanded 
rapidly, with online transactions  that has been  increas e by more than 40% annually. Digital 
platforms are essential for business because the COVID -19 pandemic accelerated the shift to 
online shopping. This trend supports the potential of an online book trading platform in 
Bangladesh.  
Second -Hand Book Market Research:  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 6 
 In this project, I ran a research on old books buying and selling ratio, the result absolutely shocking 
to me.  The old books that could be any types of books that are more valuable than a new ones.  
Here is some studies that I have gained from my research:  
- The number is Greater than 60% who suggest  every reader or students should buy old 
textbooks at a lower price . 
- Most of the s tudents sell books after completing courses  or manage a specific time to sell 
books , and make the supply continue running.   
- The awareness among younger generations are mostly  use the  old ones.  
- The comparison between an fair costs by 30% to 40% in d igital market ing. 
Online Marketplace Best Practices:  
The key factors is highlighting the  literature on  this book related  e-commerce platform s: 
- User Trust:  Every customer want  their privacy in terms of like payment and user 
authentication and 2FA ver ification . 
- Search and Discovery:  The user experience (UX) and transaction rates  have improved   the 
functionality.  
- Mobile -First Design:  Firstly, we develop website with responsive design which is support the 
ratio of any mobile, so it would be more interactive with youth . 
- Payment Integration:  At this moment the government open a way to payment easily in 
globally via PayPal. It would be a great opportunity for us like influencers, freelancers. In 
2026,the Paypal, GPay  will be new payment method added beside bKash, and bank system.  
Academic E -Commerce Platforms:  
Studies on university -based e -commerce platforms show that , 
- Those marketplaces have s tudent s, found that it’d have better trust and transaction success 
rates  than any places . 
- Academic al platforms have 25 -35% higher user rates compared to general marketplaces.  
- The availability and engagement  have been improved with improvement of academic 
communities . 
- Having a  better availability and participation when work s closely with universities  and 
researchers.  
 
1.3 Gap Analysis  
As per  my research for this project, t here are few book store in B angladesh, where anyone can buy 
book, but could not sell the book what they have finished, or any other reasons . Based on th is 
background study, the following gaps exist between current solutions :  
Gap 
ID Problem 
Area  Current  State 
(Manual/Informal)  Proposed Target 
(Book -Shop)  Software 
Implementation 
(Features)  
G1 Academic 
Focus  General e -commerce 
lacks focus on 
specialized academic 
books.  Dedicated platform 
for academic 
materials and 
community 
exchange.  Category -based 
navigation; Peer -to-Peer 
(P2P) listings.  
G2 Time & Geo 
Limits  Book fairs (like Feb 
21st) are seasonal 
and location -bound.  24/7 access from any 
location in 
Bangladesh.  Cloud -hosting; Next.js 
SSR for high availability 
and performance.  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 7 
 G3 Search & 
Discovery  Social media/fairs 
lack structured 
search and filters.  Advanced multi -
criteria search for 
specific versions.  Full-text search engine; 
Filters for Author, 
Edition, and Condition.  
G4 Payment 
Security  Cash -only or 
unsecured transfers 
in informal groups.  Secure, consolidated 
infrastructure with 
multiple options.  SSLCommerz 
Integration 
(bKash/Nagad); Escrow 
logic.  
G5 Trust & 
Verification  No user history or 
validation in 
informal 
environments.  Trust -based 
ecosystem with 
verified reputations.  User Profiles & Rating 
Systems; Verified Seller 
Badges.  
G6 Continuity  Market activity dies 
after physical fairs 
conclude.  Persistent 
marketplace for 
year-round trading.  MongoDB Persistent 
Inventory; Automated 
listing management.  
G7 Mobile 
Optimization  Existing systems are 
desktop -heavy and 
slow on local data.  Mobile -first design 
for 80%+ mobile 
usage in BD.  Responsive 
CSS/Tailwind; Asset 
optimization for low -
bandwidth.  
G8 Cost -
Effectiveness  Traditional shops 
add high markups 
and fixed taxes.  Direct P2P 
transactions to 
eliminate middleman 
fees. Real-time Chat; 
Dynamic pricing labels 
and student discount 
toggles.  
In my perspective, this gap analysis is not explains all, but it does highlight the importance of a 
specialized online book selling buying platform that overcome  these restrictions and provides a 
full answer for the academic community and readers.  
2. Objectives  
I want to develop what actually are the goals to get something for this project. I will write that in 
points for your better understanding:  
Primary Objectives:  
- Create a E -Commerce transactions  solution Blog or Book .  
- Enable  the user account protection with email verification and password reset.  
- Implement on the p ayment Gateway(SSLCommerz) , for secure  the financial transactions.  
- Develop a User -Friendly Interface  
- Implement Shopping Cart and Wishlist Functionality  
- Build an Order Management System with status tracking  
- Facilitate Seller Product Listings and Management  
Secondary Objectives:  
- Use Google OAuth for a fast login  
- Support various payment options: SSLCommerz, bKash, Nagad, PayPal,  GPay  etc. 
- Add image uploading  system  
- Implement a responsive design for both  OS mobile and desktop.  
- Sent email tips and updates  for order status  with ver ification . 
- Will create admin dashboard for platform management.  
 
3. Methodology / Requirement Specification : FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 8 
 3.1 Research Design / Prototype Design  
 
Figure: 1. 0.1 – Figma  Design Layout -1 
 
 
 
Figure: 1. 0.2 – Figma  Design Layout -2 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 9 
  
Figure: 1. 0.3 – Figma  Design Layout -3 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 10 
  
Figure: 1.1 .1 – Homepage Design Layou t 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 11 
  
 
Figure: 1.1 .2 – Books Design Layou t 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 12 
  
Figure: 1.1. 3 – Selected Book  Design Layout  
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 13 
  
Figure: 1.1. 4 – Homepage Design Layout  
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 14 
  
 
Figure: 1. 2 – System Architecture  Diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
UML Designs:  
 
Data Flow Diagram:  
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 15 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 16 
  
Figure: 1.3 – Data Flow Diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 17 
 Use Case Diagram : 
 
Figure: 1.4 – Use Case Diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 18 
 Activity Diagram - Order Processing:  
 
Figure: 1.5 - Activity Diagram (Order Processing)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 19 
  
Class Diagram:  
 
 
Figure: 1. 6 - Class Diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 20 
  
ER Diagram:  
 
Figure: 1. 7 – ER Diagram  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 21 
  
Sequence Diagram (user registration and email verification ): 
Figure: 1.8 - Sequence Diagram (user registration and email verification)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 22 
 Sequence Diagram (payment processing ): 
Figure: 1.9 - Sequence Diagram (Payment Processing)  
 
3.2 Data Collection  
The process for collecting requirements used a complex plan for objectives that included all 
stakeholders in the requirements gathering process as well. This complex plan included comparing 
Amazon, Book -Finder, and Local Marketplaces to identify the UI/UX standards and gaps that exist 
(an example of this is the lack of filtering for Academic Editions versus higher delivery charges 
for students). In addition to students buying and selling books, faculty co nducting research and 
regular readers browsing, profi les were developed for "imagined" users looking for things such as 
low prices for used textbooks. Besides , nowadays  modern stacks such as MERN or  the Next.js 
were tested for security, focusing on SSL  encryption, JWT -based authentication, and secure 
payment methods.  
Summary of Tools & Techniques : 
FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 23 
 Tool/Technique  Purpose  
Surveys/Questionnaires  Gathering statistics on consumer buying and price elasticity.  
User Flow Mapping  Imagined how we were going to get that book and buy it.  
SWOT Analysis  SWOT analysis of the systems  if there are s trengths, weaknesses, 
opportunities and threats  
Prototyping  In the early stages , the potential user is selected after validating the 
functional requirements  with the wireframes .  
➢ Final Requirement Specification  
The essential  requirements were formalized to guide the development process  which is based on 
the assessment : 
1.   Functional Requirements  
- User Management:   Creating a user account, the user should use email verification and set 
password also for  enhancing the account security.  
- Commerce Engine (essential functionalities for running) : An adaptable shopping cart, wish 
list, and multiple -step purchase procedure.  
- Seller Portal:  In this  part, there will be book exposure,  database  management  along with the  
image uploads.  
- Logistics & Payments:  It will h ave a well organized  address management  process , order 
tracking, and secure payment processing.  
2.   Non-Functional Requirements  
- Security:  Adding a higher and strong  authentication implements  and data protection for 
payment credentials  key. 
- Performance:  Websites have it own API, so it takes time  to render  images  and optimized 
responsiveness  for all OS devices.  (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop).  
- Dependability : There is alert system in this store, so that any user could have been alert  for 
any security breach or transaction.  
 
3.3 Analysis Techniques  
In this project I am  creating it by using multiple analytical approach to make sure that it is 
technically feasible and secure with a great user experience.  
- Object -Oriented Analysis:  There are some attributes and interrelations , that has been used to 
implement  a primary entities such as User, Product, and Order.  
- Data Pipeline Mapping:  Using Express Api to trace all the movements to the MongoDB 
database  through frontend NEXTJs.  
- Use Case Documentation:  The system are  recording all the actors interactions between actors 
and also outliers too.  
- Security Assessment:  Implemented the JWT authentication, encrypted the  password hashing, 
and payment gateway to ensure user data security.  
- Performance Analysis:  While indexing the databases and optimizes the API response times 
to handle traffic and manage the large book inventories.  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 24 
 - User Experience Optimization:  Trying to c reate an platform where everything can be easy 
to use with a high rate for both buyers and sellers by focusing  and clarifying the information  
structure . 
 
4. Progress Achieved:  
 
4.1 Completed Tasks  
The time duration of the report could see the upcoming  successful of the BOOK _SHOP , and move 
to a fully integrated payment ecosystem.  
❖ Frontend Development:  
- Firstly, set up the NextJs,  typescript and tailwind css 
- Then use R edux toolkit store setup  
- Use API service to connect with the Backen d 
- Design  the UI of l ogin, register  along with the  email authentication   
- After that  design  the e mail verification page  and the p assword reset page  
- Now the header part  designs  with banner and feature sections , add footer components with the 
navigation menu for responsive bar  
- Add Filter and pagination for listing the books  
- Design ing the book detail  in page, and UI for shopping cart  
- Design the w ishlist  & user profile page  
- Used React hook  for validation  
- Install ed package for the t oast notifications  
- Use the error handling along with the react route  
- Import  Next.js image component  
❖ Backend Development:  
- Firstly, s etup the express.js  server  with TypeScript  
- Then use the  MongoDB with cluster and set 0.0.0.0 internet  connection and configuration  
- After that, s et up the authentication system  
- The i mportant thing , that generat es the JWT token , along with p assport.js for google oAuth  
- Added the  tokens for e mail verification and p assword reset functionality  
- Here is also used CRUD operations  for products , cart management system , also w ishlist 
functionality  
- Having a ddress management system  with Order model and process the order. 
- Trying to add payment method  with SSLCommerz , bKash , GPay, Nagad  
- Use c loudinary for image upload ing 
 
❖ Payment Integration:  
- Integration the payment gateway of SSLCommerz mainly  
- Have session creation , validation and verification  
- Having the t ransaction status query , refund initiation and status tracking  
- Check if p ayment success/failure/cancel with handling  
- IPN (Instant Payment Notification) support  
4.2 Results Obtained  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 25 
 The development levels  produced a fully merged production  with a ready prototype of th is Book 
Shop. The preliminary results show that the chosen MERN stack with Next.js can effectively 
manage the difficulties  of a student  to student marketplace.  
❖ Functional Results (User -Facing):  
- Multi -channel authentication:  Implementing this both Google and email authentication with 
validat ion and verification, reduces the hassle for the students specially.  
- End-to-End commerce Flow: Real-time transaction processing was made possible by our 
successful integration of the wishlist and shopping cart logic with a live SSLCommerz payment 
gateway.  
- Experimental  marketplace: After the outcome, real buyers now can monitor the whole order 
process along with the progress.  For now, we design a  responsive dashboard that  could be fit 
in both OS system.  
- Secure data: All of the A PI are now  can be  protected by  the authentication middleware, along 
with the guarante e that could use only authorized user data and financial record  to access.  
❖  Technical Findings & Achievements:  
- Structural  Security : After applying the typescript in the project, the runtime errors, syntax 
error, or any types of error  are now solved easily along with enhancing the consistency without 
any distraction.  
- Data Performance:  The response time get s faster after the load testing for MogoDB design 
along with the Restful Api . 
- State & validation availability:  By using Redux along with the Zod, there is no error in 
software system. For that reason, error alert  comes in handy during complex inputs and Zod, 
the schema of typescript doing well to managem ent the validation library besides checks the 
information while running.  
- Optimized Asset Storage:  The cover will be effective after applying the high resolution, it 
should not causing any problem. By doin g this, the server  did not fall behind to the integration  
of a cloud based image storage system .  
 
5. Challenges Faced:  
S.No.  Issues  and Challenges  Strategies  or Plans  
1 Payment  gateway  For ensuring  the erro handling  in SSLcommerz  with the 
sandbox  environment.  
2 State  management  issues  Using  the Redux  toolkit  to manag e the interplay  between  
Next.js's  server -side nature  and Redux's  client -side state 
management  requirements   
3 Image  upload  and storage  Cloudinary  used for optimized  image  and video  delivery,  
transformations,  and uploading  capabilities  
4 Email  configuration  Configured  Nodemailer  with SMTP  and environment  
variables;  created  reusable  email  templates  with retry  
logic.  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 26 
 5 Type script  type safety  Defined  comprehensive  interfaces  for all models  and 
enforced  strict  type checking  via tsconfig.json . 
6 CORS  configuration  Issues  COR S used to control  the access  for getting  resources  
from  different  domains  with the dynami c and credential  
support.  
7 Password  reset token  Implemented  hashed,  time-limited  tokens  stored  in the 
database  with strict  expiration  validation.  
8 Order  status  developed  a state machine  with built-in notifications  for 
changes  in status  during  transitions  (such  as Pending  to 
Shipped).  
9 Responsive  design  UI Install  the package  of Tailwind  CSS for the well design  
responsive  features  and adop t with mobile  device  also. 
10 Authentication  token Used  HTTP -only cookies  for JWT  storage  to prevent  
XSS attacks;  implemented  token  refresh  mechanisms.  
11 Database  query  optimization  Created  Mongoose  indexes  for search  fields  and 
implemented  Pagination  to handle  large  book  datasets.  
12 Payment  callback  handling  For integrating  the IPN system  for the verification , have  
to develop  custom  success/fail/cancel  endpoints  
13. Security  Advisory:  CVE -
2025 -66478  in NextJs/ReactJs  Vulnerability  in Router  security,  so changed  it to 
maintaining  version  with the patched  version,  and install  
this commands  “ npm install  next@1 5.5.9 , npx fix -
react2shell -next” 
 
 
6. Next Steps:  
The strategy below outlines the planned maintenance and upgrades to transform the online 
bookshop from its current state of operation into a strong, high -performing marketplace.  
S.No.  Next Task  Estimated Completion Time 
(MM -YY) 
1 Admin Dashboard  01-25 
2 Advanced Search  01-25 
3 Order Tracking  02-25 
4 Reviews & Ratings  02-25 
5 Seller Dashboard  02-25 
6 Notification System  03-25 
7 bKash  / SSLcommerz Integration  03-25 
8 Buyer -Seller Chat  03-25 
9 Recommendation Engine  04-25 
10 Analytics & Reporting  04-25 FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 27 
 11 Mobile Application  05-25 
12 Performance Optimization  05-25 
13 Testing Suite  06-25 
14 Security Audit  06-25 
15 CI/CD Pipeline  07-25 
 
7. Updated Timeline : 
I am p rovid ing an updated timeline, highlighting progress  and adjustments  that I have made:  
Tasks  6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
Backend & 
DB Design                 
 
               
Authen -
tication   
               
  
               
Product 
&Cart 
/Wishlist    
             
   
             
Payment 
& Orders      
          
     
          
Frontend 
Developme
nt  
            
  
            
Testing & 
Bug Fixes        
          
       
          
Deployme
nt         
         
         
         
 FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 28 
 Estimated  Work  Period   
Actual Work Period   
 
8. Resources Utilized:  
The development of the Online Book Shop relied on a modern full -stack ecosystem, integrating 
robust software frameworks with reliable third -party cloud services to ensure scalability and 
security.  The following software stack was utilized to build, test, and document the platform:  
Category  Tools  & Technologies  
Install  environment  Node.js  runtime , npm( package  manager),  VS Code  editor,  Git & 
Github  
Frontend  frameworks  Next.js,  typescript,  Tailwind  css, Framer  motion  
State  & form 
management  Redux  Toolkit,  React  hook form, Radix  UI 
Backend  frameworks  Express.js,  Passport.js( auth), JWT( tokens),  Multer( file handling)  
Database  MongoD b, Mongoose  
Payment  & Services  SSLCommerz,  bKash  
API Testing  Postman   
 
❖ Hardware  Resources  
The hardware was  used to give a smooth facilities lifecycle development:  
- Development machine : For development to get a well perform ed, we can use any platform 
like mircosoft w indows, Linux, or macOS.  
- Network structure : Install  a real-time API integration, package installations, and cloud 
synchronization , the internet should be flawless.  
- Storage : The local disk used for source code storage and the image based resource  have  the 
cloudinary storage . 
❖ Third -Party Services  
External integrations were critical for extending the application's functionality:  
- Cloudinary : It is us ed for  optimiz ing the  cloud  based image management and hosting of book 
covers.  
- Payment Gateways : We have to set a connection with  SSLCommerz  and bKash  for secur ing 
the financial transactions  and make it secure . 
- Communication : The Gmail SMTP  server will be used for the verification of email and 
automated email notifications . 
- Authentication : Google OAuth  is used  for secur ing the  social  while  login with capabilities.  
 
9. Project Management and Financial Analysis:  
The project needs to follow a structured framework  for guranteing , that will be  charge a  good cost 
with a high quality delivery . For now, th e main goal is to strike a balance between robust structure 
maintenance along with the  fast development.  
The investment will needed for both development and operations which is given below : FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 29 
 Category  Estimated  Cost  / Details  
Development  Cost  ৳1,200,000  - ৳3,000,000   
(Based  on 400 - 500 hours  at ৳3,000  - ৳6,000/ hours) 
Monthly  Operating  
Costs  ৳6,000  - ৳36,000  / month   
(Infrastructure  & third -party  services)  
Transaction  Fees  2% - 3% per transaction  (SSLCommerz , bKash,  GPay,  Nagad ) 
Infrastructure  Includes  hosting  (Vercel/AWS),  MongoDB  Atlas,  and Domain  
registration  
 
❖ Project Management Approach  
The project is using various types of strategies to maintain a well design and developed  code in a 
cooperation level:  
- Agile development:  It is using  an iterative process with regular tests for improv ing the 
development.  
- Quality check:  The demanding quality of code revisions and revies should be checked at every 
stage.   
- Management  Tools : Git is  usually  used for  checking the progress of task  locally.  
- Documentation : The user manual will updated thrice a week on a regular basis  in the entire 
life cycle.  
❖ Budget Allocation  
Resources are distributed to prioritize the main functionality and security of the marketplace:  
- Development (60%):  The p rimary focus will be on building main  features.  
- Integration (20%):  The services which is from  third parties , used for c onnecting like 
SSLCommerz and bKash.  
- Quality Assurance (10%):  Complete  testing and bug fixing.  
- Documentation & Deployment (10%):  There will be f inal setup  with hosting, and project 
documentation.  
 
10. Future Considerations:  
In this project, there will be a problem with the payment gateway because we do not have any 
merchant account, merchant account is really hard to get until the shop is eligible. The Book -Shop 
has a good pote ntial with some problems, but also have it’s solution which is ensur ing the  long-
term stability.  
Core Technical & Operational Considerations : 
Area  Issue  Problem  solution  
Scalability   Due to it’s growing user base , 
the database queries become 
slow  Have to i mplement the Redis caching and 
query improvement in practies . 
Payment 
Reliability  A single third -party provider  
have high dependencies  Make sure, have a extra backup  with a 
solitude  strategies.  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 30 
 Security  Have serious  threats, data 
breaches, unauthorized 
access  etc. Should u se the rate limiting, HTTPS, and 
strict validation.  
Storage Costs  Need to i ncreas e the  
Cloudinary expenses with a 
huge  image volume.  For increasing the size with out losing it’s  
resolution at a low cost,  must  apply image 
compression and CDN optimization.  
Responsiveness  UI is hard to m aintai n with 
across  different  devices.  Make sure developers will be given the 
responsive design before from client or make 
it themselves, c ontinuous cross -device 
testing.  
 
❖ Business & Performance Considerations  
- Order fulfillment:  The physical deliveries is difficult  to manage . For that, collaborating with 
delivery services which is very helpful nowadays, there are many delivery of API avail able 
like Pathao , speedfast, BDReX,  eCourier , and our goal is to reduce this . 
- Legal Safety:  The system will implement  a strict privacy policies  in terms of service (GDPR)  
which is  supported by regular legal reviews  and it will address the data privacy issues .  
- Performance Efficiency: In the future, personal support service system  will be added to offer 
offline support  to know the problem . And also fix the loading system which is delayed for 
some technical issues would be solved.  
- User support facilities : Customer questions will be answered by a AI assistant Bot . Live chat 
and ticketing systems are being considered for the next phase.  
- Feature Roadmap : We will maintain a continuous feedback loop with users in order to 
maintain the plan feature enhancements and ensure that the platform grows according to market 
demands.  
11. Conclusion:  
The Book Shop project are present ing to you  a comprehensive e -commerce web designed with the 
availability  of both buying and selling of books in Bangladesh. Through the implementation of 
modern web, secure payment processing, and intuitive user interfaces, this service are able to fill 
up the expanding gap for easy -to-use book trading . 
While d eveloped a full -stack e -commerce with some  exceptional featur es like secure 
authentication system with multiple login options, SSLCommerz payment integration, responsive 
UI design , robust database schema, and scalable API architecture  design . This happened because 
all of this was b uilt with typescript for type safety, Next.js for modern React -based server -side 
rendering, Express.js for RESTful APIs, and MongoDB for data management /database , along with 
the error handling and validation.   
 
Future Expansion:  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 31 
 In the next few  future ,we will have a strong foundation  with growth , along with the  search in 
advanced with recommendations, dashboards of seller/admin, analytics  or reporting and enhanced 
communication tools.  
This project elaborates  it’s proficiency in this MERN -stack development, API connectivity for  
database, and tell how to implement payment gateway in modern web development. The  
architecture is allow ing easy maintenance and future enhancements, making it a sustainable and 
scalable solution for the book trading marketplace.  
 
References   
[1] Next.js Documentation, Vercel  Inc., "Getting Started with Next.js," [Online]. Available: 
https://nextjs.org/docs. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[2] Express.js Documentation, OpenJS Foundation, "Express - Node.js web application 
framework," [Online]. Available: https://expressjs.com/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[3] MongoDB Documentation, MongoDB Inc., "MongoDB Manual," [Online]. Available: 
https://docs.mongodb.com/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[4] Mongoose Documentation, MongoDB, "Mongoose - elegant mongodb object modeling for 
node.js," [Online]. Available: https://mongoosejs.com/docs/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[5] SSLCommerz Integration Documentation, SSLCommerz, "SSLCommerz Payment Gateway 
Integration Guide," [Online]. Available: https://developer.sslcommerz.com/. [Accessed: Current 
Date]  
[6] React Documentation, Meta Platforms Inc., "React - A JavaScript library for building user 
interfaces," [Online]. Available: https://react.dev/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[7] TypeScript Handbook, Microsoft, "TypeScript - JavaScript with syntax for types," [Online]. 
Available: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[8] Tailwind CSS Documentation, Tailwind Labs Inc., "Tailwind CSS - Rapidly build modern 
websites," [Online]. Available: https://tailwindcss.com/docs. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[9] Redux Toolkit Documentation, Redux Team, "Redux Toolkit - The official, opinionated, 
batteries -included toolset for efficient Redux development," [Online]. Available: https://redux -
toolkit.js.org/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[10] Passport.js Documentation, Jared Hanson, "Passport - Simple, unobtrusive authentication 
for Node.js," [Online]. Available: http://www.passportjs.org/docs/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[11] Cloudinary Documentation, Cloudinary Ltd., "Cloudinary - Image and Video API," 
[Online]. Available: https://cloudinary.com/documentation. [Accessed: Current Date]  
[12] Nodemailer Documentation, Nodemailer Team, "Nodemailer - Send emails from Node.js," 
[Online]. Available: https://nodemailer.com/about/. [Accessed: Current Date]  
 
Appendix  
Appendix A: Project Structure  FYDP (Phase -I) Evaluation  Report [Version 2.0] 
© Copyright  2025 Department  of Computer  Science  and Engineering,  Daffodil  International  University                 32 
 FINAL YEAR DESIGN PROJECT  
PHASE -I PROGRESS REPORT  
 
This report, in the form of a template, has been specifically designed for BSc. students working on 
their Final Year Design Project (FYDP) at Computer Science and Engineering Department, 
Daffodil International University (DIU).  
 
Every group of students is required to do the following:  
1. Complete all the sections of this template  
2. Get it certified by the assigned supervisor before one week of Phase -I evaluation 
presentations  
3. Submit 01 photocopy to each of the following, on or before the day of Phase -I 
presentations:  
a. Supervisor  
b. Internal Evaluator  
4. Submit original copy to FYDP committee on the day of Phase -I presentations.  
 
 
Note:  
1. Use English  
2. There should be NO grammatical or spelling mistakes  
3. Submission after due date will not be accepted  
4. For more information, contact your Supervisor  
 
 
Template prepared by:  
 
 
 
FYDP Committee  
Dept. of CSE, DIU  
 Template approved by:  
 
 
 
Dr. Sheak Rashed Haider Noori  
Professor and Head, Dept. of CSE, DIU  
 
 
 
The students and faculty members of Computer Science and Engineering Department, Daffodil International University have full 
access rights to read and print this document without any prior notice to the Head and FYDP committee.  
 
All rights are reserved.  
 
 
 